---
title: Victory Dance - Prologue
date: 2021-03-28T12:00:00+01:00
draft: false
cover:
  image: victory-dance.jpeg
  alt: Victory Dance Cover
  caption: Cover created by Shannan Lekwati
---


The war overseas may be over, but the war on our shores has just begun...

Britain is forever changed and trying to rebuild in the aftermath of WW2. It's a time for celebration of the victory, solemnity for those lost and depending on community now more than ever to thrive in a new global market. 

Despite everything against her, Ruth Fraser managed to make a name for herself during the War, even if it meant putting her love life on hold. Now that the world seems to be righting itself again, Lieutenant Thomas Murray seems to fall straight into her lap. 

But whilst Britain's record for fight for what is right during the War looks great in the history books, these ideologies don't seem to filter through back on shore and Tommy and Ruth's interracial relationship causes issues in their community. Can they make it together?

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

"I think it's starting again."

Thomas raised his head from his spoon of soup, his mouth gaping open as
he strained to listen. If it wasn't for the plop of a carrot dropping
back into his bowl, I could have sworn he was a statue. I dared not to
breathe to let him listen, awaiting his verdict.

A moment or two passed like this, him with his spoon hovering at his
lips and me clutching onto my tea towel. The wisps of heat from our
bowls rose in the air between us.

Just a moment longer. The roads were too busy, filled with construction
workers and beeping car horns, but he'd hear it if he just waits a
moment longer. Just a little longer.

I could see how his eyes turned from the kitchen window to my face, by
the change in his expression, from straining to listen to straining to
understand. He was worried. Tommy was worried and he was *never
*worried. His spoon returned back to the bowl, "Ruth\...darlin', I can't
hear a thing."

"J-just listen for a little longer-"

"Ruth. Nothing's going on. They've stopped, alright? I got them to stop.
I just think -- now come on a second, where are you- Ruth?!"

I was out of my chair and out of the room, my grip on the tea towel
tightening. I knew I needed to calm down, I knew he was starting to
starting to get really worried now. I paced along our front room, seven
steps to one side, seven steps to the next, knowing that he was there,
standing in the kitchen and watching me the whole time. Watching me like
I was crazy. But I wasn't going to let him sway me this time. "Tommy, I
*know* what I heard-"

With a soft shake of his head, Tommy pushed his shoulder off from the
door frame. His voice was low, deep and rumbly as he bridged the gap
between us, "Darlin'-"

"No."

"Ruth\...c'mon. You *saw* me speak to them. They're young, they hardly
even know what they're doin'-"

"'They don't know what they're doing?' Are you- they know fine well!
Making those noises. They know what they're doing's wrong. They know it.
Why else would they run away? Huh?"

"That's what lads *do. *They're just havin' a lark-"

"What?! Jesus- Tommy! It's not a lark! It's the noises, it's the
following me down the street -- the bins!"

The grimmace on his face told me I was going to lose this battle.
Especially when I agreed before, when I admitted that he was probably
right.

"I thought we agreed that that was the foxes."

"I know. I said that, but\... but I *know*, Tommy, *I know*. Leaving the
chicken bones there -- that's the type of stuff they do because they
think it's funny-"

"Why would that be funny?"

"That's just it! It's not! It's not funny!"

"Look, would you just *calm* dow-"

A high pitched crash like thunder stopped him mid word. Suddenly the air
was bright and frosted. I closed my eyes tight, trying my hardest to
stop it all from happening, but I simply couldn't. My mind wound back,
jumping to worst. I remembered chilly nights of complete darkness, of
the ghoulish wails of the air-raid sirens looping over my mother's
quietly murmured bargains with God to let them miss our house tonight.
Through the chill, I felt something, piercingly hot and then
surprisingly ice cold seconds later.

A nightmare was infront of me when I dared to open my eyes. Blood was
dotted along Tommy's porcelean skin, studded with glittery fragments of
glass, his eyes wide and imploring as he chanted my name. I hadn't
realised his hands were gripping my arms, that he was guiding me down to
the floor, "-you've got to, okay? You've got to bend down, darlin'. Lay
down on the floor and just\...just stay down. I'll call the police."

"I tried to tell you, Tom. I tried to-"

"I know. I know, but darlin' you've got to-"

"-you didn't get it. I *knew*-"

"Ruth, just stay -stay down. Crawl to the bedroom. Just keep away from
the windows."

I glanced up from my place, pressed down to brown carpet of our front
room towards my husband. My breathless, speechless husband. The pain of
comprehension spread across his face as the sounds of hoots and pants
got louder, as more voices joined in. His knuckles creaked in anger at
the sound of them shouting monkey noises through our smashed window.

"Bastards."
