---
title: Victory Dance - How to Make an Entrance
date: 2021-03-28T12:00:00+01:00
draft: false
cover:
  image: victory-dance.jpeg
  alt: Victory Dance Cover
  caption: Cover created by Shannan Lekwati
---




--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

It was a real rarity for everyone to be stuffed into the car together.

"Louie! Stop -- sitting -- on -- my -- dress!" Eliza growled, banging
her fist against Luis' leg with each word.

"'Ey! I won't have none of dat!"

There were reasons for why we were rarely stuffed in the car together. I
sighed, wishing I could press my head against the window for some space
as Dad trundled the car along the road, but I was forced to take the
seat behind Dad's because Luis was so lanky and had to sit behind mum,
where her chair was pulled up closer to the dashboard. The green, fluffy
feathers on the hair pin that Nancy lent to me was clipped into the
swirl of my dark, brown hair to match with the emerald green velvet
swing dress. Suddenly I was wishing that I'd gotten a lift from Nancy
and Michael instead now.

Louie tutted slightly, trying to close his legs more to give Eliza more
space. It wasn't that he was purposefully trying to annoy her, rather
that he just took up more space that he used to before. He leaned up,
scooping the ruffed taffeta of Eliza's dress to pool it onto her lap
before sitting himself back down with a sigh.

"We're almost there. We're going to be on our best behaviour now, aren't
we everyone? No more fighting." Mum asked, dabbing her finger into her
tube of red lipstick to tap it against her lips once more. Her touch-ups
on her face were becoming more and more frequent the closer we got to
the Hall.

"Yes, Mummy."

"I'm not a kid any more-"

"Den stop actin' like one," Dad harrumphed, leading the car down the
quiet country lane to pull in towards the big farm house that the Ball
was being held in. The house stood on a slight slope, shining brightly
against the darkening sky. Music danced its way out towards us, becoming
louder and louder as the car found its way along the dark, tree lined
road to the gravelled car park.

The car engine had barely been turned off before we all clambered out,
desperate to get some space. The journey was less than 15 minutes, but
being cramped together like that made it feel like hours. I ran my hand
down the soft velvet of the front of my dress to straighten it out, only
to feel my mother's hand tug at the back of my hem to fix it for me,
"There we are..." she whispered softly, before standing straight once
more to look at me, "You look gorgeous, you know. There's going to be
loads of fine young men here, desperate to have a dance with you. Who
knows what'll happen!"

"Me," Dad muttered, taking out his cigar box to tap a cigar against it.
It was as he held it between his lips, about to raise a stricken match
to its end that he stopped, caught in the headlights of my mother's
threatening look. The cigar was promptly replaced in its container,
"Them boys ain't goin' near you."

I couldn't help but chuckle and shake my head, "I'm 24, Dad."

"'Xactly. Still a baby."

"I've had a boyfriend before-"

"Just a boy 'dat were your friend."

"-you met Jack. We were dating for two years."

"Were you married?"

"What? No! You know-"

"Den he were just your friend," My dad reiterated, heading in towards
the Hall, with Liz and Luis following after.

Mum gently shook her head, a grin spreading on her face, "Just you
ignore him. I'm excited to see how many boys ask you to dance!" she
squealed, linking her arm with mine to lead us to the doorway.

A small table was set up near the entrance of the door, where a young
man wearing his uniform was sat beside a blonde woman in a red dress.
Her lips matched the colour of her dress, and the beaming smile on her
face was enchanting. Everyone here was dressed up on their finery, the
women like glittering gems and jewels, the men in either suave suits or
in their khaki coloured uniforms, their badges and shoes shined to a
shiny gloss. Children weaved in and out between legs and Eliza grinned
and yanked on Mum's hand when she noticed a friend, before barrelling
away when she had permission to go play whilst we stayed in the queue to
get our tickets checked.

As we inched towards the front, I could see the blonde's smile
faltering. Her brows furrowed for a second, before she looked back
towards the old couple she was taking tickets from, directing them
towards the hall and the sound of big band music. She then leaned in
towards her partner, whispering in his ear and his eyes caught mine.
Mine quickly fell to the floor.

That dark, heavy familiar feeling filled my chest. Things felt like they
were moving in slow motion as I found myself chanting a quiet prayer in
my mind. *Please not tonight. Not tonight. Not when everyone is here, in
a good mood. Please don't do this tonight. Not when everyone's looking
so great. *Luis looked so smart. Mum had to let out his suit a bit more
since last year. His shoulders had gotten so broad... Dad even hunted
down a pair of tights for Mum. It took him days to find someone with
them and he gave up a few of his good cigars for them, too.

The closer we got to the front, the more uncomfortable the ticket
checkers became, their smiles becoming stretched into grimaces. Luis
nudged me slightly and nodded his head imperceptibly towards the table
before glancing at me with a concerned look on his face. He knew.

Whereas everyone else got warm welcomes and some friendly banter, the
woman and the soldier sat quietly, passing the tickets that my Dad had
held out. Their scrutiny over the tickets was long and silent. The
looked at the paper like they were Â£1000 bank notes, turning them over
in their hands. The tension in Dad's shoulders almost made him shudder.

"It's a nice night out for it. Bit chilly though, right?" Mum simpered,
rubbing her gloved hands together in a display of peace.

A slight nod was the only response before the soldier cleared his
throat, "How did you find these tickets?"

"Ah din' find 'em. We were invited."

"Really? And your name?" Chipped in the blonde bombshell, straightening
her back as she picked up her pencil to scan through the list of names
set before her.

"1^st^ class Private Winston Fredrick Fraser-"

"And how did you get invited, Mr Fraser?"

Luis shook his head as Dad shuffled from one foot to the other, pressing
his hands to his hips. We knew the exact look on his face at this
moment, the exact moment that was the calm before the storm, "The post."

"The post?"

"Yes."

"And who was it sent from?"

"Ye want to know who sent me the invite?" Dad's voice was starting to
rise slightly.

"Yes."

"What's yer pro'lem, boy?"

"Excuse me?"

"Ah, ye' deaf? I said 'what's yer pro'lem, boy?'"

"Win-"

"No, Sar. Did ya' see dis man interrogate anyone else?"

"I wasn't interrogating-"

"Why do ya need to know who sent me the invitation?"

"Sir, we need to verify-"

"Is my name on dat list?" Dad gestured to the paper, held in the woman's
trembling hand.

"Well-"

It sounded like the music was quieter now. Luis lingered closer to me,
shaking his head again in embarrassment. People in the queue behind us
where staring and tutting.

"Is it on the list?"

"Y-yes, sir, but-"

"Den what's the-"

"Private Fraser. Loud as ever, I see."

Heads turned towards the soft clacking of a walking stick against the
wooden floorboards of the lobby. An older gentleman gripped onto the
mahogany wooden cane, leaning into it for badly needed support as he
hobbled towards us. Instantly, the soldier at the table stood to
attention, holding his stance, along with my father.

A dismissive wave of his paper white hand uncoiled my dad's frame, "At
ease, men. If we can't be at ease today of all days, when can we be? I'd
assume everything is going well here?" He asked, coming to a stop with a
slight sway, as though he was struggling to find his centre of balance.

The solider glanced at Dad, a look of fear on his face. The fact that
this man seemed to recognise Dad was off putting.

"Well, sir, we were simply-"

"Dey won't let us in."

"That's not what-"

The man came in a little closer, picking up the ticket from the table.
He picked up the ticket, holding it out at arms length to check it,
"Yes... I can see the problem here. It's my handwriting. Even I can
hardly make out my signature from chicken scratching..." He handed the
papers back to the blonde and nodded once more, "Isn't that a mighty
embarrassment? You'd think I'd use my best handwriting for the man who
saved my life, but there we are."

"Ya best handwritin' wasn't legible anyway," Dad smirked, coming in
closer towards the man.

"Still impertinent as well. Time hasn't changed you at all, Winston!"
The man chuckled, hitting my Dad's leg jovially with his cane, before he
turned promptly on his heel, hobbling back towards the music, "It hasn't
changed you at all. Still haven't introduced me to your family yet
either. And I thought we were close."

Straggling behind the group, I grabbed Luis's arm to get his attention
as I whispered, "Is this really-"

"I think so. Captain Wright? I mean, Dad always went on about saving
someone's life, but... I always thought he was just-"

"Me too. I mean, he was a mechanic. So Dad *actually* killed a man."

"I guess. I think I preferred when it was just a story."

"Me too. Go find Liz before she does something to get us kicked out."

"Easy enough. Once I tell her we found a Captain, she'll start asking
about boats all night."

"God help him. He might wish Dad did let him die."