---
title: Victory Dance - 'You are cordially invited'
date: 2021-03-28T12:00:00+01:00
draft: false
cover:
  image: victory-dance.jpeg
  alt: Victory Dance Cover
  caption: Cover created by Shannan Lekwati
---


Breakfast with the Frasers

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the War was over, my father refused to take down our blackout
curtains for ages. Most of the curtains were removed right away, with
some women transforming the leftover materials into dresses and skirts
as quickly as they could. They heard rumours that the men wanted to burn
them in a bonfire, so it was better that they stashed them away safely.
That day, everyone had tuned into the radio to listen to Churchill
finally announce that the War was over. Among all the screaming and
shouting and music on the streets, the first thing that all the mothers
were doing was taking down their curtains, letting their homes fill up
with light once more. But our own Winston at home refused.

"Paid good money for dem. Ain't no way we're bringin' 'em down now."

"Oh, come on, Winston! They've been up for years. Won't it be nice to
get our other ones up? Let some light in?"

"We've had 'em up der for years, a few more days ain't gon' make no
difference," He reasoned, his eyes glaring straight out of the window so
he didn't have to see my mother's pouted lip. His shoulders were squared
and his hands were placed firmly on his hips to signify that this was
the last he'd hear about it.

Poor dad. It wasn't over, not by a long shot. She asked again at least
another four times.

"Win, Maggie across the street is starting to wonder why they're still
up, you know."

"Well, you can tell 'er we keep 'em der so she ain't peepin' in no more.
Nosey bugg-"

"I could turn 'em into a good pair of trousers for you. For work, Win.
You need another pair-"

"Dat'll need to wait. We're keepin' 'em up, Sarah."

"It's damn near unpatriotic, you know," My mother muttered sourly, her
arms crossed over her chest as she glared at the offending curtains in
contempt. Dad just placed a comforting hand on her shoulder before
returning to fluffing his tobacco for his pipe.

For the next few weeks, Mum tortured him. There were numerous phone
calls, with Mum explaining that she simply couldn't have her friends
over for tea, because she 'simply couldn't* stand* them seeing them
still up'.* *She turned Maggie away at the door two weeks in. Margaret,
who'd seen Mum foraging through rubbish in an attempt to find the tea
bag she had thrown out, forgetting that she had to reuse them, but was
now too good to be allowed into the house when the black out curtains
were still up.

She'd even taken to standing at the fence in the garden, a trowel in one
hand and a fence post in another, loudly complaining to our neighbour
Agatha about the curtains. "You know, Aggie, I just don't get it," She'd
stage whisper on a Saturday morning, knowing that my dad would be out in
the garden to check on the carrots they had started growing, "The day we
put up those curtains, he told us it would all be for nought. Now that
we can take them down again, he wants them kept up! I think he's just
trying to wind me up, you know."

But Dad being Dad, would pay her no mind as they nattered and
postulated. He wanted them up and they stayed up, so what was he going
to complain about? In the 26 years they had been together, like any good
soldier, he learnt when to pick his battles.

Me and Luis started placing bets on when he would finally cave to Mum.
Luis thought it'd go on for a week. I thought he'd last two and a half
weeks if Mum kept it up at this rate. The last time they fought like
this was when Dad poured out the bacon fat to make himself a glass of
water. Mum went on for two whole weeks about how flavourless the food
was, how our potatoes could have done with just a smidgeon of the grease
to get us through. It wasn't over until Dad came back with a whole pound
of bacon that he put in front of Mum, asking if he would now get early
release from his prison sentence. So when the curtains stayed up for
more than four weeks, we both agreed that the bet was off.

Of course, Luis and I didn't dare to ask him why he still wanted them
up. Louie would sit on my bed at night as we both tried to come up with
some reason. How did Dad get that pound of bacon anyway? Did he steal it
from some store or out of the hands of someone, and now he was trying to
hide himself? That didn't seem right. He never hid from anyone. Or was
it the TV that he had recovered from the old Turners' house after the
bombings? Was he only now feeling ashamed to have pilfered it, even
though he bragged about it to everyone he knew? He was so proud of that
TV when he got it, getting Uncle Rich and Louie to help him carry the
set back into the house. It was placed right in front of our sofa,
sitting there stagnant because there was no TV to watch during the War.
If we just bided our time, he promised, we'd soon be watching the FA Cup
from the comfort of our own front room.

So, me and Louie kept quiet, only trying to make guesses with each
other. If he heard it from either of us, we were sure to get an earful
about being disrespectful. It didn't stop Eliza from asking, though. It
was quite a sight to see my 15 year old brother trying to convince a 10
year old to gather some intel. For only being 10, Liz did some shrewd
negotiating, getting him all the way up from his measly offer of two
jelly babies to five jelly babies and three pear drops.

It wasn't a worthwhile trade. When Liz returned, her palm held out for
her reward, she announced that they were up because Dad said so. It then
fell to me as the eldest sibling to adjudicate the debate on whether Liz
did enough to be allowed to get her payment. Reluctantly, Louie gave up
four of his jelly babies.

It still bugged me that we never really got an answer. It wasn't as
though the curtains stayed closed day and night. In fact, Dad was often
the first one to open them in the morning. Mum was right - throughout
the whole 6 years he had hated them with a burning passion -- so why was
he desperate to keep them up? I think he wanted the curtains to stay up
because he didn't believe that it was over. Even though Churchill told
us that it was an unchallenged, unequivocal surrender, Dad still didn't
believe it. I suppose he was right to have doubts. He had already fought
in one war and now he was living in the rubbles of the second one.

We were lucky enough in our house. We never had to climb out from the
communal shelters and find that our house was demolished. The worst that
ever happened was that our back windows were ruined and we didn't get a
harvest of potatoes that year. A few people in our street lost
everything -- their homes, their pets -- their lives. It didn't happen
often but when it did, it was a loss that reverberated throughout the
whole street.

It took Dad four weeks before he let us take those curtains down. I
think he let us take them down because he was fed up of us asking. I
still don't think he really believes that it's finally all over.

As it drew closer and closer to the anniversary of V-Day, people started
to buzz with anticipation. Last year's impromptu celebrations were
riotous -- women scraped together as many ingredients that they could
find to make cakes and pies and drinks that were rationed were all of a
sudden being poured with reckless abandon. There were bonfires in the
street and music played on radios and phonographs. Someone even carried
out Eddie and his upright to get him to play something. Day spilled into
night and some of the more sturdy partiers among us had to be collected
by their families as the sun started to rise in the sky again.

Talks of parties and balls and parades were on everyone's tongues. Was
it going to be like last year? Some folk said that the City Council had
granted permission for some street parties along certain roads. Others
said that the damage partiers caused in London last year meant that the
police were going to be extra vigilant -- that they might even
confiscate people's alcohol. Some people were even worried that they
might even start rationing drinks. Men promised to pick up arms again if
the government was going to go that far. *They could take our eggs, they
can take our lads, but God forbid they ever touch our rum!*

All those rumours were just that. As the days counted down, invitations
starting winging their way around the city. We got ours two weeks before
the party, in a wax sealed envelope addressed to Dad.

Of course, that meant Mum opened it and read it aloud to us all at
breakfast on Saturday morning. She cleared her throat dramatically as
she began, "*Dear Private Fraser-*"

Dad dropped his spoon into his porridge, his dark, bushy brows furrowing
into his forehead, "Sarah, what you playin' at-"

"*We would cordially like to invite you and your family to St. Paul's
Inaugural Victory Day Ball. * You hear that, Win? 'Cordially'! We've
been 'cordially invited'!"

Eliza's eyes looked like they were about to pop out of her head with
excitement, "A 'ball', Mum? Dad, are we going to a ball?!"

"Y'see what you started, Sarah? Liz, s'down 'n' eat yer porridge."

"It's like in Cinderella, though, Dad! Can I get a new dress, Mum?"

"What? So you can get porridge down that one, too?" Luis grumbled,
waving his spoon towards Liz's navy blue dress that was now flecked with
porridge, "Why d'ya still eat like a baby? Yer 10."

"MUM!"

"Get your spoon out of that jam jar right now, Winston Luis Fraser. And
leave your sister alone as well -- do you have to torment her? You're
six years older than her!"

Louie scoffed, lifting his spoon out from the jam jar with a red mound
to drop it into his porridge and mix it in vigorously before Mum could
protest. He learnt from last time, when she just scooped it right back
into the jar.

"C'mere," I murmured, licking the pad of my thumb to swipe it down Liz's
dress, "You'll be more careful with your new ball dress, won't you?"

"I ain't said we're goin' to no ball," Dad's deep voice cut through the
cacophany at the table. All eyes turned towards him, "What they
wantin'?"

Now it was Mum's turn for her arched brows to crease up, "What d'ya
mean?"

"I mean 'how much money they wantin' for'? Ain't nothin' in this world
for free."

"Unless it's a TV."

"Watch ya' mouth, boy."

From the shuffle in Mum's chair, we could tell that we should be scared
of the answer.

"Nothing."

A collective sigh of relief was spread around the table.

"It says, 'Proceeds from tickets will be donated towards the cost of
rebuilding St. Paul's-"

"That don' sound free to me!"

"-*but* as a veteran, you and your family are invited as guests, free of
charge.'"

A silence fell across the room for one moment as Dad tapped his nails on
the tabletop in thought. And then the pleas started.

"Dad, we've got to go-" Louie started.

"They've sent an invitation right to you, Win-"

"It sounds pretty fun, actually," I mused, taking the letter from Mum to
read through it.

"Daddy, we *have *to go! Ella's dad got his letter yesterday and
they're-"

"-if we didn't go, I don't *want *to imagine what people will say. It'd
just be rude-"

"Oh -- there's a tombola! The prizes actually sound good\..."

"-Uncle Rich said that they're giving free drinks to the vets for an
hour."

"*Please*, Daddy. I get to dress up like a princess."

I don't know whether it Liz's puppy-dog eyes or the promise of free
alcohol, but Dad eventually sighed and nodded, "Ye better hope me
uniform still fits."

"Ha! Not a chance!" Louie scoffed, scooping out another tea spoon of jam
straight into his mouth.

"Louie!"

"BOY!"