---
title: Victory Dance - Going for a Spin
date: 2021-03-28T12:00:00+01:00
draft: false
cover:
  image: victory-dance.jpeg
  alt: Victory Dance Cover
  caption: Cover created by Shannan Lekwati
---




--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

My stomach was now happily overly satiated, full with rich gravies from
the bacon wrapped chicken roast and the thick, sweet sauce from the
sticky toffee pudding. Liz looked like she was ready to bounce off every
single surface in the room from all the sugar she had just eaten, having
finished Dad's pudding off for him as well as her own.

I sipped at the after dinner coffee, handing over the little packages of
shortbread to Louie for his consumption. More and more it felt like he
was an empty pit, desperately trying to eat as much as possible whenever
possible. Mum almost despaired at how quickly he inhaled his dinner,
barely lifting his head to join in with any of the polite conversation
around the table. He'd even managed to wrangle leftovers from Captain
Wright at some point. When Mum turned a fierce shade of pink when the
Captain pushed his plate towards Louie, telling him off for his lack of
manners, the Captain merely chuckled, "Growing lads are always the
hungriest. Unless someone wants to through my brother in the mix. All
bets are off there..."

The soldier who had followed me to get raffle tickets snorted and ranked
a hand through his brown hair, pushing wisps out from his face.

"Ye know, I don' think I'll be ribbin' yer brother wit' ya. I got
respect for a man payin' for my drinks," My Dad stated, completely at
odds with the slight smirk on his face.

"Well, if I knew that that was all it would take, I would have shared my
flask with you sooner," The Captain harrumphed, shaking his head as a
waiter offered to fill up his mug, "No, thank you, dear. I don't think
my heart could quite take coffee. Awful American drivel. I'll wait for
the tea."

"Oh, it's awful. Keeps me up half the night when I drink one cup," Mum
agreed, shaking her head in disbelief, "It totally makes sense, though."

Nancy, who grabbed her husband and dragged him over to our table as soon
as dessert had been devoured, sipped her own coffee and wrinkled her
nose, "What makes sense?"

"Americans," Mum replied, looking at Nancy incredulously, as though this
was the only answer possible, "And why they're like the way they are.
They always seem so full of beans. It's because of the coffee."

"You know they don't actually eat the coffee beans raw, right?" Mike
asked after a moment's silence, spreading a fine spray of shortbread
crumbs across the table.

Nancy shook her head, placing a hand on her husband's lap, "I think
she's well aware of that, dear."

"I mean\...she said about beans-"

"Darling. Shush."

A small titter spread around the table until Captain Wright graciously
swept in to remove any chance for discomfort by declaring, "Well, if
you'd all like to look over at the Greater Wright, I'm sure you would
witness quite a spectacle\..."

Our heads couldn't swivel fast enough towards Lord Wright, who was
standing at the back of his seat, unable to make space to pull it out
and sit back down now that a group had swamped around him. Except for
the gentle buzz of conversation from across the room, it was hard to
tell what was going on. If I could hazard a guess from the reddening of
his face and neck, though, it certainly wasn't a pleasant conversation.

"It seems like his idea of getting every man a pint might have
backfired," I muttered, turning back to our table.

"I highly doubt that was his idea," the soldier responded, "Lord Wright
isn't very well known for readily parting with his hard earned
inheritance at the best of times, never mind to supply the good folk in
this room with wine and whisky. Frankly, it makes it taste that much
sweeter," He smirked, taking a sip as he nodded at the Captain, who
simply shook his head as he tried not to grin.

"D'ya spend the man's money for 'im just then? 'Splains the look on his
face. He was 'bout to have an heart attack," Dad chuckled, shaking his
head, "I guess I finally got something to be thankful to ya for."

"'Finally'," Captain Wright chuckled and shook his head, "Yes, I suppose
you 'finally' do."

"You know, if I wasn't someone who knew better, I'd say that you two
hated each other," Mum sighed, shaking her head, "Men. They can only
show their appreciation by being rude to each other, hm?"

"That sounds about right. Whenever Mike and his brothers meet up it's
like carnage."

"It's not that bad. Just some standard rough-housing."

"Darling, your 19 year old brother ended up breaking a leg because he
wanted to prove he could land on his feet after jumping from the top of
the stairs. It's not really standard, is it?"

"*That* was his own fault."

"Except you and Jerry kept goading him on."

I leaned in to Louie, "I bet you're glad you only had sisters."

"Hm. I dunno. Sometimes I'd take a broken leg over you guys crying and
whinging all the time," He shrugged, opening up a shortbread to bite a
chunk.

I raised a brow, "You know, brothers would never give you their
shortbread."

"That's true. Me and my brothers always fought for stuff," Mike
confessed.

"They're animals, really," Nancy drawled, sipping on her wine with an
uppity air.

"I don't think that's very fair to-"

"Oh, I think they might be drawing the raffle!" My mum squealed, picking
up her handbag to riffle through it for her tickets, "Jesus - I can
hardly see in this light where they might be\..."

This time, when Horace took to the stage with the much loved Helen in
tow, there was a roar of approval and wolf-whistles that followed.
Before Mike could bring his hands together to form his first clap, Nancy
gripped onto his thigh, and shook her head. From the look of slight
terror that I could see on Mike's face, I felt grateful not to have
witnessed Nancy's glare of disapproval.

"Thank you, thank you," Mr Wilson smile, as he stood at the microphone,
"You're all too kind, but I'm sure my wife wouldn't be too pleased at
those whistles." He took the moment to chuckle at his own joke, his
cheeks now a rosy pink compared to his blanched pallor at the start of
the evening. The confidence derived from Dutch courage actually suited
him slightly, "Now, it's that time that we've all been waiting for: it's
the drawing of the tombolas! We've got some corkers for prizes! Such
as\... a bottle of\... Lagavulin, a brand new dutch oven, a-a\...shit. I
can't read this! Helen, is this your handwriting? It's bloody awful.
Don't you women get classes for this type of-"

Helen quickly shuffled her way over to the microphone, taking it away
from Mr Wilson so she could stop the car before it continued to crash,
"-an afternoon tea at the Bristol Hotel! And, of course, the surprise
grand prize which will be revealed later. As\...Mr Wilson said earlier,
all of these wonderful gifts and more have been donated by members of
the committee or companies within Bristol! Isn't that wonderful? A-and
for those who didn't manage to get a ticket for tonight's raffle, there
will be a tombola out in the hall way for the rest of the evening. It's
20p a play, and we have some really fantastic prizes, especially for all
the little kiddies in the room."

Horace was a vision behind Helen, holding a hat in his hand with the
raffle tickets in it. He'd managed to tip a few out at some point
throughout her speech, meaning that he had to bend down to gather them
up. The more he bent over, the more tickets fell out, like
multi-coloured strands of confetti, littering along the floor of the
stage and tumbling to the ground. It took him a few moments to realise
his error and with a tut that could be heard from the back of the room,
he finally placed down the hat and started his hunter-gatherer mission
to collect every ticket. It was like something out of a Laurel and Hardy
or Chaplin film. Titters could be heard sporadically across the room,
whilst Helen did her damnedest to keep everything on track.

The first few prizes were collected without any enthusiasm on the behalf
of the winners. A soap set was collected by a soldier, who tutted when
his friends cheered him onto the stage. Someone won a new pen and ink
set, nodding their dull thanks as they traipsed away.

"And now for the set of four home-made jams! We have\..." Helen smiled,
poking at Horace with the edge of the hat that she had managed to
salvage from him. It seemed like now all he was good for was giving
pantomime like 'oh's and 'ah's and picking out the tickets for Helen to
read out the numbers, "Number 397! Who has 397?"

After having handed over my tickets to Mum after the second prize was
announced as she didn't seem to believe I was capable of reading numbers
anymore, I could basically feel her vibrate with excitement before she
finally gasped,"That's one! Ruth, that's your one! We - we have it!"

A dull courtesy clap spread across the floor as Mum jammed the ticket
into my hand and ushered me off, "This is the start of our streak. I
want that custom made dress!"

As I made my way over to the stage, I could see the expression on
Helen's face falter and rectify itself quickly. With a beaming smile,
she tried to juggle holding the hat and my prize, pressing the four
heavy jars in their carton against her body to keep everything level,
"Aren't you lucky?"

"Just the luckiest, really," I responded, taking my prize out of her
hands and returning her plastic smile with one of my own.

"Oh. Do you mind if I can I see your ticket, though? Just to make sure
you've actually won."

I bit the inside of my lip, trying my hardest to control the little
flare of anger that bubbled in my stomach before I handed over my ticket
and swiftly left the stage as she crushed it in her hand. She didn't
even need to glance at it as she knew fine well that it was mine. I'd
bought some from the back of the book.

I returned to the table with my winnings, sourly placing them down as
Luis and Mum started to eye them over.

"You know, I think the raspberry jam has real seeds in it," Luis nodded,
seemly pleased with the result, "That'd be great on toast-"

"Toast?!" Mum baulked, shaking her head, "No! That's going inside a
Vicky sponge. I've been saving some sugar for it. I have powdered eggs,
but I reckon we might be able to get some real ones and keep them
aside\..."

No one was more let down than Mum that she didn't win the custom,
handmade dress. Instead, a burly man in a tweed jacket wandered up to
the stage to claim his prize with a delighted expression on his face.
With a wrinkled nose, Mum clapped out of obligation as he descended from
the stage, "I never bloody win anything."

"We have the jam, Mum. I reckon that's a fair prize."

"Maybe we'll win the tombola," Liz cut in, tapping Mum's knee to sooth
her.

"That's true\... right, let me find my change - Win? Give up your
shrapnel."

As Dad dug through his pockets, moaning and grumbling the whole time,
the rest of the prizes were awarded. It seemed like our table was the
winners, though. A friend of the Captain's who was sitting at the other
side of the table won a pair of new boots. Shelly, had to slink away up
to get her prize, with her husband tutting at her gambling, but the fact
that she had won a new pair of boots was part of the conversation for
the rest of the evening.

And then, there was the soldier. He rose up to collect his prize of the
afternoon tea that I had been coveting for a while now. I always walked
past Bristol Hotel on my way into the office and on the way home. I
would peer through the windows on my way, watching people sitting
graciously at tables, with grins on their faces as they delicately
picked up chocolates and scones and nibble the tiniest little bits out
of it, like they had to make sure they lasted for ever. I always
wondered who those people were and what they must do for a living, being
able to sit in an expensive restaurant all day without a single care in
the world.

On my way home, I'd watch couples linger intimately at the bar, drinks
being sipped achingly slowly, whilst at the other end, friends huddled
together, whispering away as live music played. The dark silhouette of a
bartender could be seen, backlit against the lights of the bar, pouring
drink after drink or swiping a rag along the counter tops. It reminded
me of moments from Casablanca.

Me and Nancy desperately wanted to go there. Mike's brother had taken
his wife one day as a treat, and she couldn't stop raving about it to
Nancy. Although Nancy attempted to bait Mike into a competition with his
brother, trying to get him to prove that he treated Nancy better that
his brother treated his wife, Mike was quick to see through it and Nancy
never quite managed to get her afternoon tea there.

Nancy sighed as the soldier picked up his reward, gave a half-hearted
salute to the audience who had a renewed interest in the reveal of what
the grand prize was and who was going to win it. As he returned towards
us, she leaned in to mutter to me, "You reckon he'd swap his tickets for
your jam?"

"Not a chance! I've got plans with this jam, Nancy Laughton. don't you
go putting ideas in Ruth's head. I missed out on the dress and I'll be
damned if you take my jam."

"Ya betta watch Louie den. Boy'll eat the lot 'fore we leave."

"Pft. Mum'd skin me alive."

"Well, there's your answer," I muttered shaking my head at them both
before we started clapping for the winner of the grand prize - a two
night stay in the Bristol Hotel, with dinner on both nights. I nodded
towards the soldier, who was putting away his tickets into his coat
pocket, "Congratulations. Seems like I left enough tickets for other
winners."

A delicate smile spread across his lips and a soft puff of air escaped
in his chuckle, "Just about. Thanks."

Helen seemed relived to be able to wrap up her duties for the evening,
reminding us all to continue to donate, and trying to entice everyone
into going to the tombola. The promise of gifts for children there
started a small group of whines across the tables as children begged for
money to go play. Amongst them was Liz, who had very patiently been
biding her time until she could grab Mum's hand and implore her to go.
Somehow, she also managed to get almost everyone at the table to root
through their coin purses to give up their money too. She seemed to have
a way of doing that, managing to convince almost anyone to give her what
she wanted with those big, chocolatey chubby cheeks and a smile sweet
enough to give you a sugar high. Before you knew it, you were penniless
and she'd drift off to her newest victim.

The majority of our table seemed to melt back into a group of soldiers
and their wives, sitting close together as they chatted and drank and
smoke, leaving me, Nancy and Mike to our gossip. Luis had also given his
pardons and had wandered off towards another table where he could spy
some people from his year in school. And amongst them, of course-

"I think he's going to do it," Nancy said, grabbing my hand as she
watched Luis inch his way closer into the group.

"Oh God. Oh God, I hope she says yes. I don't wanna see him crushed."

"Are you kidding? He looks so cute in his little suit. She's gonna eat
him alive."

"Mm, but her Daddy is going to have a coronary-"

"What're we looking it?" Mike asked, leaning in. Nancy gesture across
the way towards Luis, who had now managed to get Olive away from the
larger group and seemed to be in the middle of his proposal. Mike
tutted, "Leave 'im alone. If he finds out you two gossips were watching
him this whole time, he'd die of embarrassment. Now can you just - is-is
that Olive Riley?"

"The one and only," Nancy smirked, taking a sip of her coffee as she
watched the show unfold.

"Oh, her Dad is going to go wild if he finds out - wh-where is he?"

"Probably slumped against a table somewhere," I muttered.

"Free drinks," Nancy nodded in agreement before sighing, "He better
dance with her whilst he can. Someone's bound to wake him up
eventually."

"Maybe. Maybe they'll just leave 'im alone. Dad's here." I explained,
nodding towards my father who was sitting back with his group of
veterans once more, a cigar pressed between his lips as he listened to
whoever was speaking, "You know they wouldn't bother him if Dad's
around."

"That's fair... oh, they're off to the dance floor! Honestly, look at
them both! How sweet is that?" Nancy pouted, watching them with a hand
clasped to her chest.

As the opening cords of the *I Can't Believe You're in Love with Me*
started, Dad's head lifted from the table, "Where's yer mum?"

"Uh\...last I heard she was trying to win the doll for Liz at the
tombola. She might need to file for bankruptcy at the end of the night,
Dad. I think you need to cut her off."

Dad nodded and stood up, "'Scuse me, den. I'll go fin' her. That's our
song. She'll be hurtin' if we miss it," he explained, placing his cap on
his head, and adjusting his coat.

The Captain chuckled and glanced at Dad in disbelief, "Well, wonders
never cease. It looks like we have quite the romantic on our hands. How
could you be surprised at Louie now?"

Taking one last sip of his whisky, Dad couldn't help hide the smirk on
his face, "Da boy's smooth, just like his dad\..." before he turned
promptly on his heel to head towards the entrance way. He was hardly
half way across the room when Mum appeared in the doorway, a grin on her
face.

Nancy sighed softly, watching Dad lead Mum to the dance floor so they
could melt into the crowd together, "Hmmm\...could you imagine that?
Married all these years and still in love. Mike, do you remember our
song?"

The deer in headlights look on Mike's face gave the impression that he
was watching his life flash before his eyes. The people left around the
table seemed to almost lean in, wanting to see how he would wriggle his
way out of this one.

Wiping his hands down the legs of the black slacks, Mike cleared his
throat and nodded, "Of course I can, darling. But when we're together,
every song is our song. Now, come on. Let's go for a spin."

Our eyes flickered between Mike and Nancy, as we waited to see how Nancy
was going to react. The little smile on her face, and how she graciously
took Mike's hand gave off the impression that all was well, as they
swept off towards the dance floor, Nancy's navy dress pooling behind
her.

"Looks like he got away with that, there," the soldier murmured, shaking
his head in disbelief as closed the gap of the empty seats between us to
sit at my side.

"Mmm, I have my doubts about that. Nancy's not one to forget these types
of things. Just when he least expects it, he'll get his comeuppance," I
responded, sipping my wine as I watched the couples swirl around the
dance floor to the soft tunes. Whilst most couples were wrapped up
together, with heads cuddled in close, dancing cheek to cheek or cheek
to chest as as they swayed to the music. Not Louie, though. Even from
this distance, it was easy to see how he was gently counting under his
breath, his arms stiff as he tried to make sure that there was a
suitable distance between him and his date.

"You know, I never got your name-"

"Ruth Fraser."

"Ruth Fraser. Well, I'm Thomas Murray," He smiled, holding out his hand,
"It's been a pleasure to meet you."

I couldn't help but chuckle at the formality, taking his hand to return
the slight squeeze. His hand felt solid and strong, but soft as well. It
was at complete odds to his uniform. Usually soldier's hands were
calloused and hardened. As I looked at him closer, though, he was full
of contradictions. Soft lips, but a strong jaw. The colour of his eyes
blurred across the whole spectrum of the colour green, but he had a
razor sharp hair cut. Light caramel browns flecked through his dark,
chocolatey hair, but little hints of white and silver could be found in
the stubble along his chin. I could understand why Helen had such big
doe eyes for him. "Likewise."

"So, you've had a good evening so far?"

"It's been\...okay. Would've went better if I won that afternoon tea."

"Well, now you're just being jealous."

"I'm big enough to admit that you're right."

"But you did get\...what was it? Some jam?"

"Uh, excuse you! I think you'll find -," I murmured, picking up a jar to
read from the label. I leaned in towards the table to use the candles
for light, "- that it's real handmade fruit preserves. The fruit was
picked at the height of its season as well. It wasn't just any old fruit
going into it. So it's not just jam. Oh, one of them has plums in
it\..." I pointed out, tapping the label with a nod.

"Oh, you got me. Now I'm the one who's jealous."

"As you should be."

"I'll try not to cry into my\...champagne, scones and petite fours. I
might need to get a new suit for this."

I tutted slightly, shook my head and politely clapped as the band ended
their song to start another, this time with more of a swing to it. I
tapped my foot against the leg of the table, watching the couples pick
up the tempo. Mum and Dad found their way off to the side of the dance
floor, their hands still entwined.

"You know, Ruth? I've not seen you on the floor all evening."

"I think it's better for everyone that I'm not, to be honest with you."

"Well, I doubt that. I think you should have at least a few dances. Come
on. Let's give it a go," Tommy got up, gesturing towards the dance
floor, as he stood behind my chair "Everyone else is doing it."

I swivelled slightly in my seat, leaning back to look up at Thomas, "I
really don't think it's a great idea."

"Well, Ruth Fraser, I am a man of many great ideas. It'll surprise you,
really. Come on. What's the worst that can happen?" He asked, a charming
smile spreading across his face.

With a little disbelieving shake of my head, I rose and took Thomas's
hand, allowing him to tuck my chair in behind me, "Well\... I suppose
it's your funeral."

"We'll see about that. Now come on. Let's go dance."