---
title: Victory Dance - Pin-ups and Gossips
date: 2021-03-28T12:00:00+01:00
draft: false
cover:
  image: victory-dance.jpeg
  alt: Victory Dance Cover
  caption: Cover created by Shannan Lekwati
---


What's it all about, Naaancy?

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the days leading up to invitations being sent out were filled with
rumours, then the days after they were received were filled with a heady
rush in making sure everything was prepared. New dresses were to be
swapped or found or made, make-up was scrounged for or created if you
knew how. Of course, the men were all as calm as cucumbers. The most
they had to prepare for was lining their stomachs on the night. At
least, all the married men were calm enough.

"I heard that lil' Louie wants to ask Olive to dance," I could hear the
smirk in Nancy's voice as she flicked through the clothes in my
wardrobe, "Oh\...oh, when did you get this shirt?!" She squealed,
spinning around to show me what she had in her hands.

"At a swap -- keep your voice down! He's probably in his room," I
hissed, slipping off from my bed to float over to my best friend with a
grin, "Not Olive Riley?"

"One and the same."

"Oh\...her dad-"

"-his blood will just boil up and he'll keel over," She nodded,
finishing my sentence. The grin on her face widened, "I honestly can't
wait!"

There's a few things that astound me about Nancy Laughton: on my first
day of school 18 years ago, Nancy Laughton sat down beside me at lunch
when no one else would. She remained silent for a minute whilst I chewed
on my cheese and pickle sandwich before she rubbed her hand down my arm
and then checked the palm of her hand. With a satisfied, toothless grin,
she climbed onto the bench, holding her hand aloft as she declared to
the rest of the room, "I TOLD YOU IT WOULDN'T COME OFF." Once she had
gotten through Mr. Keller's bollocking, she explained to me that some of
the other kids were too scared to sit beside me. Their mothers had told
them to come back clean and they were worried that my blackness would
rub off on them, dirtying their new school clothes. From a young age,
Nancy could smell bullshit from a mile away and she was never afraid to
call it, either.

"Do you reckon she'd say yes?" I asked, taking the hanger from Nancy to
put my shirt away as she continued to pull out dress after dress from my
cupboard. I found it was always best to try and clean up as you go along
in the middle of Hurricane Nancy.

She spun towards me once more, pressing my high-waisted trousers to her
body and tutting in despair when they only came to her hips, "Eh\...yes.
Yes, she will. Have you not heard?! God, I wish you weren't such a
short-arse."

Another thing about Nancy, is that she seems to be the fountain of all
the gossip in Bristol -- maybe in the whole of England, actually. There
must have been something about her that made everyone gather around and
spill their deepest, darkest secrets with her. It was local knowledge
that Nancy would know everything -- as much as it was local knowledge
that if everyone knew your problem, you could trace the source all the
way back to Nancy. For some reason, the fact that she had loose lips was
never a real problem, though -- she still managed to maintain her status
as the shoulder the cry on, no matter how many dramas she had caused.
Her most egregious was when she was 15, and had somehow found out that
our headmaster was sleeping with the school secretary. She did have a
claim to fame of telling us that Roy Emerton had died five whole minutes
before it was announced on the radio.

"It's not my fault you're basically a giant. They'd be hanging off your
skinny arse anyway - what have I not heard now?"

"Oh, she fancies the pants off him. Seriously! They all went out to the
cinema together to see *The Thief of Bagdad* and Molly told me Olive
insisted she sat beside him."

"You're jok-"

My bedroom door creaked open in that moment, with my mother's round face
appearing behind the frame, "Sorry, girls -- Nance, are you staying for
dinner, pet?"

"No, thanks! If I'm not home to make tea for Harry, I reckon he'd eat
his boots. And they're his last pair, so I'd better not."

"Husbands for you, eh? What'll we do with 'em?!" Mum scoffed, shaking
her head.

"I know, Mrs Fraser, I know."

I knew what was coming next.

"You'll have to see about getting yourself one, Ru. Then you'll know all
about it."

"Hardly seems worth it if they eat their boots."

With a tut and another shake of her head, my mother disappeared.

"You think she was listening in?" Nancy asked, wandering over to my desk
to now pick through my meagre stash of make-up and jewellery.

"Oh, definitely," I responded breezily, scooping up the dresses Nancy
had picked through to place them all away once again, "You know, my Dad
knows how to cook. *He* taught *her* how to make the dumplings. She kept
burning the bottom of them, and they're literally boiled in water."

"Don't take the right to complain about husbands away from her, Ruth,
that's not fair. Like your mum said, you'll learn one day -- ow!" Nancy
huffed, rubbing her elbow as she sat on my bed with my eyeliner held
aloft, "Watch it. Could've broken the tip of this."

"Mmm, and what a pity that would be. How is Harry doing, by the way?"

"Same old, same old. The bank are still talking about him getting a role
in London," Nancy murmured, touching the tip of the eyeliner to her
tongue before she started to run it up along her leg, failing miserably
in her attempt to create her stockings, "You know, I never could get the
line straight," Nancy tutted, slicking her tongue over her fingers so
she could wipe out the dark line she had drawn up her creamy white legs.

"That's because you're trying to look at it from upside down... let me
see,"I asked, taking the eyeliner pencil from her as I gestured for her
to stand up straight again. Starting at the back of her ankle, I drew
the pencil up slowly along her right calf, "You've just got to... see it
straight on... You've got the rest of the kit for Saturday though,
right? Otherwise folk'll be wondering why the nylons are so white- hey,
don't swat my hand! Do you want this straight or not?"

"Well it's hardly like I can head out and get a tan now, is it?! I've
still got half a box left," Nancy muttered petulantly, "You're sticking
your tongue out again. You look like an old perv when you do that."

"Look, I'm-I'm doing this for you! You really want to be annoy me right
now, or do you just shut up and stay still?"

"Alright, alright!" she grumbled, holding up her hands in protest, "You
know, you're lucky, you don't have to do this. Your legs look naturally
tan."

My withering glare must have made her quieten up. I sat back into the
brown carpet of my bedroom floor and replaced the cap on my pencil,
"Right, if this is just for practice, then there's no point. I'll put it
on for you on Saturday before we go-"

"You're an angel, Ruth Fraser."

"-but only if you let me borrow a hair pin."

"Of course! The mother-of-pearl flower one? I know you-"

"God, no!"

"-love it- what?! I wore that to my wedding!"

I bit into my lip, wrinkling my nose as I tried my hardest to conjure up
some reason for my rash response, "It won't match my dress at all!"

"I thought you hadn't picked a dress yet?"

"I-I'm going with the green one."

My withering glare was returned back to me. My attempts at trying to
look confused at Nancy's distrust certainly wasn't successful.

"Mmm. I think I know which one'll be good for you. Let's go -- I've left
my hair pins at Mum's," She responded, trying to smudge the eyeliner
away from her leg before huffing a defeated sigh and picking up her
coat.

"Nancy, you've moved out six months-"

"Are you wanting the hair pins or not, Ruth?"

I held my hands up in defeat, getting up to follow Nancy across the
road.

As is typical for Sarah Eleanor Fraser, my mother's head popped around
the door of the front room and into the corridor as we headed down the
stairs. There was little that could be hidden in this house from my
mother. She knew and recognised the sounds of everyone's footsteps, knew
which floorboards creaked and the distinctly different groans on the
hinges of each bedroom door. Any time Luis and I tried to find her
hiding place for our birthday or Christmas presents was nigh on
impossible.

"You're not off out, are you? Dinner's getting made."

I slipped on my shoes and coat, "I'll just be ten minutes, Mum. I'm just
getting something from Nancy's."

"Oh! Well, can you ask Linda if she fancies going to the swap on
Saturday?"

Nancy's brows furrowed, "Can't you just call-"

"I would, but I wouldn't be able to get off the phone to Jim."

"Ah...Mum was wondering if Granddad picked up a new girlfriend!"

"Mmm\...well-"

"Sarah? Ye' burnin' the food."

"Oh, shit -- I'll speak to you later, girls! Could you not keep an eye
on it, Win?!"

"Ye' told me to get mesel' out the kitch-"

Nancy weaver her arm with mine as we left the warmth of the house, "You
can always have dinner at mine, you know."

"Are you kidding? She slaved in the kitchen all day, determined to make
the dumplings just like my dad. If her food doesn't kill me, then she
will."

It was always interesting to see the differences in people's houses. Now
that Nancy and her older sister, Kelly, had flown the coop, the Milton
household had become a lot quieter. It always had been a quieter home
compared to ours, where voices would boom and reverberate around the
rooms and something would be on the radio at all times. The Milton's
listened to the radio as well, but it was always at a quieter level.
People didn't seem to congregate and flit around the house -- everyone
seemed to simply pass by. Of course, none of them had Liz demanding
everyone's attention for half and hour as she performed some play or
song she had just made up either. Our house was always alive with some
sort of movement or cacophony. This wasn't to say that the Milton's
house was dead, per say, but it did lose a lot of life in it when
Nancy's dad died.

Gently closing their front door behind me, I kicked off my kitten heels,
placing them at the side of the door among the others as Nancy called
through, "Mum! Mrs Fraser about the swap on Saturday? She wants to know
if you're going."

With a sweeping grace, Linda Milton appeared in the doorway, "Of course
but\...couldn't she just-"

"Grandpa answers the phone."

"Oh, no. I'll have to start putting it out of his reach -- are you
staying for tea, Ruth, darling? Sarah told me she was cooking
something\... 'traditional' tonight?" Through the politeness, it was
difficult to tell if the wrinkle in Mrs Milton's nose was because she
was once a victim to my mother's attempts at cooking Jamaican food, or
if it was because it was Jamaican food.

"I'd better not, Mrs Milton, but thanks for the offer-"

"Who's that?!," boomed a hacking, phlegmy voice. It took Mr Robert
Milton Sr. a moment to clear his throat before he could shout once
more,, "Is that my Geraldine?" The creaking of the springs in the couch
and the gentle scuffle of slippers on wooden flooring told us he was
coming.

Nancy winced and mouthed 'sorry' before responding, "No, Grandpa, it's
Nancy. Remember?" she asked, meeting him half way in the front room to
get him returned to his seat.

It wasn't long after Nancy's dad had died in Norway in 1940, that Robert
Sr. was brought back to live with Mrs Milton. He wasn't able to live by
himself at that point, having almost burnt his house down when he left a
pot on the stove. Over the years, his memory had gotten worse and worse.

"Nancy?"

"Yeah, Grandpa."

"You know, I do know a Nancy, but she's a little girl."

He was stuck in the past, trying his hardest to remember anything he
could.

"That was me, Grandpa."

Sometimes, something would work it's way through, though.

"No, no, my Nancy is small. She hardly comes up to my knees. You do
look... no, she's a little girl-"

You'd hear how a memory would suddenly burst through. Sometimes, on the
really good days, he'd even recognise Nance and would ask her how she
was-

"-always playing with the golliwogs, though."

He did lack a filter, though.

"Granddad!"

"Yeah\...the ones she plays with aren't as bad as the rest, but mind
you, you've got to be careful-"

It was always worse when he actually saw me. Suddenly a stream of
'there's a blackie here' would thunder through the house. He'd call for
his dead wife, demanding to know why she didn't get help from a good ol'
British girl.

I learned it was best to stay out of his sight.

Linda had already taken over, lacing her arms around her father-in-law's
frail body to get him settled down once more.

Nancy slipped back through into the hallway, closing the door to the
front room behind her. For a moment, she hesitated. Her fingers traced
along the door handle as she contemplated for a moment, before turning
back to me with a smile, "It's the velvety green dress, right? I think
I've got just the hairpin. It'll look *so* good when you've got your
hair curled!"

Another thing about Nancy is that she was never good at apologies.