---
title: Victory Dance - Speechless
date: 2021-03-28T12:00:00+01:00
draft: false
cover:
  image: victory-dance.jpeg
  alt: Victory Dance Cover
  caption: Cover created by Shannan Lekwati
---




--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Hall was filled with big, round tables each filled with bottles of
wine and whisky, little nibbles and a beautiful spray of flowers in the
middle, with little decorative flags nestled inside. Music flowed around
the room, gently cushioning each table with the comfort that their
conversation couldn't be overhead by others. At least, that was the case
for all tables but ours.

Though each table was comfortably set for 10 people, ours was
overfilled. Chairs were added, to surround Dad and Captain Kenneth
Clarke Wright, allowing everyone to exchange the grisly details of the
Wars. It sounded like they were attempting to one up each other, trying
to compare one war to another. Luis was spellbound.

When everyone was gathered around their radios, anxious to listen to
Churchill's announcement of our involvement in the War, Luis was only
nine. Like most boys his age, the promise of hearing new war stories,
about planes and guns and heroes was exciting. There was a new chance
for them to play new games about the war, re-enacting the dog fights and
whatever scuffles were relayed to us in the daily news. Play was
imitating life. Then, as the years went on, he prepared himself mentally
for drafting himself in. Boys were getting picked younger and younger
and he was convinced that as soon as he turned 14, he'd get a chance
too. Luckily, it never amounted to that, but he did go out of his way to
make sure his disappointment was felt for a few days.

For Luis, being in the war meant he'd get to be like Dad, even for a
little while. Dad was more respected than other black men in the
community. Whilst this was partially because he was the guy who could
fix your car or declare it for parts, it was also due to his role in the
war. His tale of him fixing the engine. How he got a British tank back
up and running after it had been water logged. It simply never made any
sense to us, given that back here, he went around fixing cars and
factory machines. Me and Luis never really believed most of his stories,
and we had serious doubts about the time he saved a Captain's life,
especially when he had to shoot a German to get them out of a hairy
situation. But, more importantly, the rest of our street seemed to think
he was alright, and that was what Luis liked more than anything.

Louie had a hard time in secondary school, especially when he was moved
to an 11+ school. He wasn't just with the kids from our street any more.
These were the kids that were destined for the draft, if the war had
carried on. They were kids who were happy to reduce Louie to the colour
of his skin and little else. That was, until their dads mentioned that
they knew our Dad and asked after him. Suddenly, a transformation
occurred. Louie wasn't just a blackie any more, he was a good one - and
a mutt at that! - and that made him alright by their books. If their
dads said he was alright, then he was alright.

It was important to be the right type of black man. Louie just wanted to
show that he was just as patriotic as Dad. He wanted to be alright too.

Tired of hearing about men playing pranks on each other in the trenches,
I sipped my glass of wine, leaning in to listen to Mum and the other
women discuss their own War efforts.

Little Liz wasn't interested in either of these discussions though. She
had been struggling to follow the men's conversation, but suddenly, her
interest had been piqued when she heard one of them mention U-Boats.
Ever so brazen, she "So you *do *have a boat, then?"

A mirthful laugh spread around the table. Captain Wright took a sip of
his whisky before he leaned in across the table with a smile, "Now, why
would you think I have a boat, Eliza?"

Liz looked around the group carefully before she responded. There was a
hesitation in her voice as she queried, "Because\...because you're a
Captain?"

"Of course. That's a sensible question to ask. Well, dear, I'm afraid
I'm not that type of Captain. I was a Captain in the army. There was no
boat."

"So\...you're a Captain without a boat? Are you sure you're a good
Captain?"

"Depen's on who yer askin'" Dad murmured to the men, who all gave a
slight chuckle.

"Eliza," Mum said, warningly as she placed the plate of crackers in
front of Liz, hoping she would stuff her mouth and stop talking, "Be
polite now."

With a gentle wave of his hand, the Captain chuckled, "No, it's no
trouble. You're rather quite like your Dad, you know. Always asking the
important questions. I'm afraid I didn't have a boat in the army, no,
but I *do* have a small boat moored in the marina. Perhaps someday in
the summer, you should convince your mother and father to come out
there. I think you'd be a rather good first mate."

"Me?!" Eliza grinned excitedly.

"Well, of course. I need someone smart like you to help me keep
everything right. I can hardly ask your father to do it," Leaning in
closer, the Captain stage whispered, "He might start a coup!"

Suddenly, the music quietened down and a man in a sharp suit cleared his
throat into the microphone, "Ladies and Gentlemen, may we ask you all to
return to your seats, please?..." The sound of chairs scraping and heels
pattering across the floor could be heard across the room as everyone
scrambled to the rightful places. Our once bustling table, returned to
its former 10 residents, nested close to the front stage. "Thank you.
The evening is about to begin. My name is Horace Wilson and I will be
your host for this evening. Tonight, we're celebrating the victories of
not only last year, but of those great British Heroes who went before
us!" He nodded, letting the applause permeate throughout the room before
continuing, "Yes, yes... fine brave men who served so that we all might
live-"

A cheer fell through the room, until someone shouted, "A TOAST!"

The man on the stage seemed a little taken aback, especially as some
people started to stamp their feet in approval, "O-okay. Well, it's a
bit\...early but-but very well! A toast to the Veterans, who-"

"THE VETS!"

I glanced over my shoulder, straining to see where the rowdiness was
coming from. It seemed like some of the younger Veterans had taken
advantage of the hour of free drinks. It was no surprise about that, at
least.

Horace blinked behind his round glasses, a slight shimmer of pink
blushing his cheeks as he stammered slightly, "Y-yes. Well. As I was
saying.

"Bristol has been hit hard by the war, there's no doubt about that.
We've lost some fine men oversees, and we've seen losses back here at
home, too. You only have to look down the road to see the damage that's
been brought to us. But we Bristolian's are strong," Horace intoned,
seeming to gain his confidence back as people murmured in approval at
the right time with his clearly practised speech. I had no doubts that
Horace throw his name into the hat for some political position or other
in due time, "We won't be put down by hardships! We band together and we
fight back!"

"TO BRISTOL!"

A rowdy ruckus of cheers, hoops and hollers went around the room. Liz
beamed at the opportunity to join in with everyone who was stamping
their feet in approval once again, slipping down her seat to ensure that
she could reach the floor.

Although this was another unplanned interruption, Horace took the
opportunity to raise his own flute of champagne, nodding his approval at
the sentiment and took a sip, along with everyone else in the room.

"Tonight, we want everyone to dig deep and donate as much as they can.
Every penny raised from the sale of the tickets from tonight, as well as
the tickets from the Tombola will go towards the restoration costs of
St. Paul's. As everyone knows, the St. Paul's is a church at the heart
of Bristol that served as a community hub. We want to bring it back to
its former glory and we need your help. The prizes are plentiful and
everything has been donated by local companies. You can get your tickets
from the reception during the meal and waiters will be going around with
donation buckets during the evening. Let's make sure they're filled up!

"I'd like you all to stand and raise your glasses in a - well, in
another toast! This time, to England! May we always rise above adversity
and protect what is right!"

"To England!" A chant was returned and glasses were drained for the
third time that night.

I pressed my hand to my stomach, trying to ebb the gurgling growls it
was emitting. The promise of food was at the end of this speech and it
seemed like my stomach was well aware of it.

"Now, there is someone in this room that we would like to pay special
thanks to. Without their help, assistance and quite frankly, their
wonderful donation of this very room that we are in right now, the
Rebuild Bristol Committee would never have been in a position to host
this evening's festivities. This is a man who did so much during both
wars to ensure that many lives were saved."

My eyes wandered over to Captain Wright, who sat very calmly with his
eyes downcast. From his stories and conversations this evening, and how
generous he was extending an invitation out to our family despite him
and Dad not talking for what seemed to be years, it seemed like no great
surprise to me that he would be honoured. His colleagues held him in
high esteem and he was revered by all. I smiled at his humbleness and
how he seemed to shy away from the compliments that Mr Wilson was
bestowing upon him.

"Lord Wright - would you kindly stand up for us?"

As a soft murmur spread throughout the room, my brows furrowed as a man
a few tables over stood. Although slightly stouter, it was easy to see
the family resemblance. His skin had more of a glossy, greasy sheen and
the red on his cheeks and slight tremble in the wave of his hand
betrayed any semblance of health that he was trying to maintain.

I turned to look at Captain Wright once more, at the shock of white hair
across his head. The Captain kept his head faced towards Mr Wilson,
refusing to look back towards his family member in a curious show of
defiance. It felt absurd to be me that someone like Captain Wright, who
seemed so gracious and reasonable, would be able to find himself in some
fight with family. My furrowed brows and intent stare must have caught
someone's attention.

To Captain Wright's left sat another soldier, with chocolatey brown
hair. I had never quite caught his name during the evening, struggling
to hear much of the conversation to the fringes of the men's realm. It
was the questioning quirk of his brow and the returned stare of his
green eyes that made me feel like I was caught red handed. I quickly
looked away, back towards Mr Wilson.

"Although not on the battlefields like his younger brother, Captain
Kenneth Wright, Lord Wright maintained his position in the House of
Lords admirably, consistently protecting us proud Bristolians at every
turn. He saved-"

"Weren't he the man who said sumfin' bout 'dirty farmers'?"

The murmur got louder and louder, starting to sound slightly angry now.

Horace blanched slightly, and raised his voice to be heard, "- he saved
many votes from turning out against the desires of us Bristolians-"

"-the papers caught him! That's what he said!"

Lord Wright returned to his seat, trying to shrink his frame down as far
as it could slide under the table. I couldn't help but notice the corner
of Captain Wright's lips twitching as he battled not to smile.

"Now! I think we ought to be grateful to Lord Wright-"

"Grateful?!"

The tides were turning quickly against Mr Wilson and Lord Wright, as the
crowd now seemed to be mobile. Angry gestures, raised voices and curses
were swirling around the room, building louder and louder until loud
clicks could be heard. Captain Wright had risen from his seat and was
pounding the bottom of his walking stick into the ground until it caught
everyone's attention. A quiet hush fell throughout the hall.

"It is rather rare that my brother is lost for words. As many of you are
aware, he said some rather\...unfortunate things about Bristol and her
people in the past. He told me earlier that he was rather hoping that
his efforts tonight would go some way to show how sorry he is. You see,
my brother is a rather shrewd business man. Whilst it may not seem it,
he does have the best interest of Bristol at heart, as has our whole
family for many, many years. Whilst he may be careless with his words,
he is not careless with his money. No\... which is why he was proud,
when he told me that he planned on donating 1000 to the funds for
rebuilding St Paul's."

A small round of applause spread throughout the room and eyes fell back
towards Lord Wright. It appeared that in the stress of the situation,
his entire face had turned a violent shade of red. He nodded primly at
the moderate approval he had now managed to garner due to his brother's
speech.

As the last of the applause died out, Captain Wright clenched and
unclenched his grip on his walking stick, "But, of course, he knows that
that does not go far enough. He told me it was important to hear from
each and every one of you in this room tonight, that your voices were
imperative in helping him understand the needs of his fellow
Bristolians. And what better way to do this over a pint? Ladies, and
Gentleman, my ever so generous brother had planned to announce that
throughout dinner, he would ensure that every table here tonight had
enough refreshments to truly celebrate V-Day."

This time, the applause was thunderous. A wisp of a smile also spread
along the soldier's face as he rested back into his chair, his arms now
folded over his broad chest.

Horace cleared his throat towards the microphone, nodding his head as he
caught up with clapping, "Well, there we have it! A-and just in time for
the starters coming out! Truly\...truly something special. Well, I hope
that everyone enjoys their meals and the music from The Brighton
Bassline-"

Everyone's attention was now either turned to attempting to get a
waiter's attention so that more drinks could be brought to the table, or
with their faces buried in their plates of food. After the length of the
speeches and the amount of alcohol that has been imbibed, besides the
soft piano music and gentle plink of a bass that played in the
background, only hushed conversation and purrs to delight could be heard
throughout the room as everyone gobbled down their soup or pâté.

After devouring my own plate of pâté and toast in silence to satisfy my
stomach, I pressed a hand to my mother's shoulder, "Do you want any
raffle tickets?"

Dabbing a cloth napkin at the corners of her lips, she nodded gently,
"You know what to do, love."

"Anniversary, date of births and a strip? You know they're a pound a
ticket? Dad'll-"

"He always gets annoyed until we win something. And we always win
something."

"Well, at least I do-"

"You had no use for that shaving kit."

Louie snorted, "Her moustache says something different- ow!"

"I raised a gentleman, not a bully," Mum tutted, shaking her head at
Louie as I got up out of my seat, "For that, you can pay for your
birthday ticket-"

"What?!"

"You'll learn!"

With a snort, I left the table, sweeping my way towards the edge of the
room to avoid the paths of waiters who were circling to snatch up empty
plates, winding my way back to the table out front. I riffled through my
purse as I waited in the queue, wanting to count up the exact change
required.

The blonde committee member sat as primp as ever, a plastic smile
stretched thin on her face as I approached, "It's a pound a ticket."

"I know. I'd like 15, please," I responded sweetly, my own smile equally
as fake as her own as I held out the to her. Before she could even ask,
I rattled off the numbers, "1, 3, 4, 6, 11, 12, 17, 29 and then the rest
from the back, please. If any of that's not available, just take the
numbers from the back."

With a court nod, she turned to her work, flicking through the pages of
the raffle ticket book. If my mother was here, she would be desperate to
fill in the silence that filled the room. On an average day, I would be,
too. Right now, however, in that moment, I just wanted to appreciate the
sweet satisfaction of having this devastatingly beautiful woman who
turned her nose up to my family before now finding the tickets for me
and my family to win that raffle.

"You know, I don't think it counts as a real win if you just buy the
whole book," lilted a soft voice over my shoulder. A hand reached out
from behind me to place a five pound note on the table, spreading the
smokey waft of cigars and cologne through the air, "Just the scraps, if
there's any left."

I furrowed my brows to turn towards the unfamiliar voice, finding myself
shoulder to shoulder with the brown haired soldier from the table. Now
he was closer to me, I could see that he had sun-kissed caramel streaks
flecked through his hair. With a slight chuckle, I shook my head, "It's
not quite all of them but\...all's fair in love and war."

His thick, dark brown eyebrows wrinkled in disbelief, "I don't know if
that applies to a raffle. There might be an uprising if you win all the
prizes because you've bought everyone out - thanks, Helen."

"You're welcome, Tommy," Helen replied silkily, placing his tickets
directly into his outstretched hand. For him, her smile was more than
welcoming.

I couldn't help but roll my eyes, picking up my tickets from the table
to wander back towards our table, handing Mum over her ten tickets
before I glanced at my numbers once more. I had the feeling I was going
to be lucky tonight.